kb(FileSelect): disable fileselect and change caption (#1979)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/fileselect-disable-onselect.md

---

> title: How to change the FileSelect button's caption and disable it during selection

Reviewer: Please, apply title style capitalization to your title and page_title as per [our style guide](https://docs.telerik.com/style-guide/titles-and-headings#capitalization). Also, consider dropping the possessive form throughout the text - "button caption" is clear enough (not required, but recommended).

> description: Hot to change FileSelect button's caption, while selecting and uploading. How to disable it during selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Hot to change the FileSelect button's caption, while selecting and uploading. How to disable it during selection.
```

type: how-to

> page_title: How to disable the FileSelect, while selecting and changing its caption's button.

Reviewer: Double-check your page_title as it seems to convey a different meaning than what was already described in the title and the description.

slug: fileselect-disable-onselect
position:
tags: fileselect, upload, select, disable, loader
ticketid: 1639447
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>
                FileSelect for Blazor, <br />
                Loader for Blazor <br />
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

This KB article answers the following questions:

> * How to change the FileSelect's button caption, when the user select or upload multiple files?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How to change the FileSelect's button caption, when the user selects or uploads multiple files?
```

> * How to disable the FileSelect during upload of multiple files?

Reviewer: Is this about disabling the entire component or an element/feature of it?

Author: It disables the entire component.

Reviewer: Then it might be best to say "How to disable FileSelect during..." or "How to disable the FileSelect component during..."

> * How to notify the user about the status of the process during file selection and prevent disruption?

Reviewer: I would split this into two questions for clarity and improved readability.

Author: I don't understand how to split these three questions into two. Or do you mean only the third bullet?

## Solution

> To achieve this configuration, you have to change the `Enabled` parameter to `false`, change button's caption and re-render the `FileSelect` during the `OnSelect` event. The specificity of this approach is that file selection is a synchronous operation that waits for the files to be uploaded, and this prevents the re-rendering during the process. The solution is to include another asynchronous operation in the handler of the `OnSelect` event during which to change the button's caption, disable the `FileSelect` and re-render it. The described approach is shown in the example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this configuration, you have to change the `Enabled` parameter of the `FIleSelect` component to `false`, change its button caption, and re-render the component during the `OnSelect` event. However, file selection is a synchronous operation that waits for the files to be uploaded, and this prevents the re-rendering during the process. To work around this limitation, you need to include another asynchronous operation in the handler of the `OnSelect` event. This async operation will change the button caption, disable the `FileSelect`, and re-render it. The described approach is shown in the example below.
```

> >caption OnSelect disable the FileSelect and changes the button's caption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>caption OnSelect disables the FileSelect and changes the button caption.
```
